The DeepaMehta application service is accessible via a REST API.

* "Topics":#topics
** "Get topic by ID":#get-topic-by-id
** "Get related topics":#get-related-topics
** "Get topics by type":#get-topics-by-type
** "Search topics":#search-topics
** "Create topic":#create-topic
** "Update topic":#update-topic
** "Delete topic":#delete-topic
* "Relations":#relations
** "Get relation by topics":#get-relation-by-topics
** "Create relation":#create-relation
** "Update relation":#update-relation
** "Delete relation":#delete-relation
* "Commands":#commands
** "Execute command":#execute-command
* "Topic Types":#topic-types
** "Get topic type IDs":#get-topic-type-ids
** "Get topic type by ID":#get-topic-type-by-id
** "Create topic type":#create-topic-type
** "Add data field":#add-data-field
** "Update data field":#update-data-field
** "Set data field order":#set-data-field-order
** "Remove data field":#remove-data-field
* "Topic Maps":#topic-maps
** "Get topic map by ID":#get-topic-map-by-id
** "Add topic to topic map":#add-topic-to-topic-map
** "Add relation to topic map":#add-relation-to-topic-map
** "Remove topic from topic map":#remove-topic-from-topic-map
** "Remove relation from topic map":#remove-relation-from-topic-map
* "Plugins":#plugins
** "Get installed plugins":#get-installed-plugins


<br>
*Notes about the REST API:*

All requests return @application/json@ data.

For requests that take data in the request body: The data is expected to be of type @application/json@ as well.
So, don't forget to set the request's @Content-Type@ header accordingly. Otherwise an error is returned (as @application/x-www-form-urlencoded@ is used as the default).

*Notes about curl examples:*

The curl examples are ready for being pasted into a terminal. However, in order to get reasonable results you should adjust the IDs and example values to your actual DB content.

In order to make the responses more readable the curl examples make use of the @jsonpretty@ tool. Jsonpretty is installable as a Ruby gem. See "http://github.com/nicksieger/jsonpretty":http://github.com/nicksieger/jsonpretty.


h1(#topics). Topics

h2(#get-topic-by-id). Get topic by ID

h3. Request

bc. GET /core/topic/<topic ID>

Curl example:

bc. curl localhost:8080/core/topic/55 | jsonpretty

h3. Response

The response is the requested topic:

bc. {
  "id": 55,
  "type_uri": "de/deepamehta/core/topictype/Note",
  "label": "DeepaMehta 3",
  "properties": {
    "de/deepamehta/core/property/Title": "DeepaMehta 3",
    "de/deepamehta/core/property/Text":
      "<p>DeepaMehta 3 is a platform for collaboration and knowledge management.</p>
       <p>A complete rewrite of DeepaMehta 2.</p>",
    "de/deepamehta/core/property/DateCreated":  1278980093803,
    "de/deepamehta/core/property/DateModified": 1278980093803
  }
}

For details about the topic data format see [[Data Format]]#topic.

If the topic doesn't exist an error 500 ("Topic can't be retrieved") is returned.

h2(#get-related-topics). Get related topics

h3. Request

bc. GET /core/topic/<topic ID>/related_topics?include_topic_types=<topic type include filter>&
                                          include_rel_types=<relation type include filter>&
                                          exclude_rel_types=<relation type exclude filter>

Curl example:

bc. curl localhost:8080/core/topic/55/related_topics?\
include_topic_types=de/deepamehta/core/topictype/Person\&\
exclude_rel_types=SEARCH_RESULT\;OUTGOING | jsonpretty

|_. Parameter   |_. Meaning       |_. Format / Possible values    |_. Mandatory / Optional |
^.| @include_topic_types@
  | Topic type include filter.
    <br>
    Include only topics of certain types in the result.
  | One or more topic type URIs.
    <br>
    To specify more than one topic type URI, use several @include_topic_types@ parameters.
  | Optional.
    <br>
    If not specified no topic type include filter is applied. |
^.| @include_rel_types@
  | Relation type include filter.
    <br>
    Include only topics in the result which are related via relations of certain types and directions.
  | One or more relation specification of the form @<relation type>[;<direction>]@.
    <br>
    Direction is optional and, when given, is eiter @INCOMING@ or @OUTGOING@. The direction is from the perspective of the related topic.
    <br>
    To make more than one relation specification, use several @include_rel_types@ parameters.
  | Optional.
    <br>
    If not specified no relation type include filter is applied. |
^.| @exclude_rel_types@
  | Relation type exclude filter.
    <br>
    Excludes topics from the result which are related via relations of certain types and directions.
  | One or more relation specification of the form @<relation type>[;<direction>]@.
    <br>
    Direction is optional and, when given, is eiter @INCOMING@ or @OUTGOING@. The direction is from the perspective of the related topic.
    <br>
    To make more than one relation specification, use several @exclude_rel_types@ parameters.
  | Optional.
    <br>
    If not specified no relation type exclude filter is applied. |

*Note:* You can't use the @include_rel_types@ and @exclude_rel_types@ filters at the same time. (Whereas you can use a topic type filter and a relation type filter at the same time.)

h3. Response

The response is an array of topics, possibly empty.
For details about the topic's data format see [[Data Format]]#topic.

bc. [
  {
    "id": 3,
    "type_uri": "de/deepamehta/core/topictype/TopicType",
    "label": "Note",
    "properties": {
      "de/deepamehta/core/property/DateModified": null
    }
  },
  {
    "id": 39,
    "type_uri": "de/deepamehta/core/topictype/Workspace",
    "label": "Default",
    "properties": {
      "de/deepamehta/core/property/DateModified": 1278736430568
    }
  },
  {
    "id": 42,
    "type_uri": "de/deepamehta/core/topictype/Note",
    "label": "Jörg Richter",
    "properties": {
      "de/deepamehta/core/property/DateModified": 1278736576165
    }
  },
  {
    "id": 56,
    "type_uri": "de/deepamehta/core/topictype/Topicmap",
    "label": "My Topicmap",
    "properties": {
      "de/deepamehta/core/property/DateModified": 1278987701199
    }
  }
]

*Note:* The response doesn't contain all of the topic's properties. (This would possibly make a large response which is possibly not needed by the client. To get a single topic along with all of its properties use the "Get topic by ID":#get-topic-by-id request described above.) Which properties are actually contained in the response depends on the installed plugins.

h2(#get-topics-by-type). Get topics by type

h3. Request

bc. GET /core/topic/by_type/<topic type URI>

Curl example:

bc. curl localhost:8080/core/topic/by_type/de%2Fdeepamehta%2Fcore%2Ftopictype%2FNote | jsonpretty

*Note:* Topic type URIs have the form &lt;vendor name>/&lt;project name>/topictype/&lt;type name>. Within the request URL the slashes must be URL-encoded as @%2F@. For details about topic type URLs see [[Data Format]]#topic-type.

h3. Response

The response is an array of topics, possibly empty.
For details about the topic's data format see [[Data Format]]#topic.

bc. [
  {
    "id": 55,
    "type_uri": "de/deepamehta/core/topictype/Note",
    "label": "DeepaMehta 3",
    "properties": {
      "de/deepamehta/core/property/DateModified": 1280668421863
    }
  },
  {
    "id": 58,
    "type_uri": "de/deepamehta/core/topictype/Note",
    "label": "Maven Notes",
    "properties": {
      "de/deepamehta/core/property/DateModified": 1280674423682
    }
  },
  {
    "id": 59,
    "type_uri": "de/deepamehta/core/topictype/Note",
    "label": "NoSQL Databases",
    "properties": {
      "de/deepamehta/core/property/DateModified": 1280674438473
    }
  }
]

*Note:* The response doesn't contain all of the topic's properties. (This would possibly make a large response which is possibly not needed by the client. To get a single topic along with all of its properties use the "Get topic by ID":#get-topic-by-id request described above.) Which properties are actually contained in the response depends on the installed plugins.

h2(#search-topics). Search topics

h3. Request

bc. 

h3. Response

bc. 

h2(#create-topic). Create topic

h3. Request

bc. 

h3. Response

bc. 

h2(#update-topic). Update topic

h3. Request

bc. 

h3. Response

bc. 

h2(#delete-topic). Delete topic

h3. Request

bc. 

h3. Response

bc. 

h1(#relations). Relations

h2(#get-relation-by-topics). Get relation by topics

h2(#create-relation). Create relation

h2(#update-relation). Update relation

h2(#delete-relation). Delete relation

h1(#commands). Commands

h2(#execute-command). Execute command

h1(#topic-types). Topic Types

h2(#get-topic-type-ids). Get topic type IDs

h2(#get-topic-type-by-id). Get topic type by ID

h2(#create-topic-type). Create topic type

h2(#add-data-field). Add data field

h2(#update-data-field). Update data field

h2(#set-data-field-order). Set data field order

h2(#remove-data-field). Remove data field

h1(#topic-maps). Topic Maps

*Note:* The topicmap requests are available only, if the _DeepaMehta 3 Topicmaps_ plugin is installed (that is part of the DeepaMehta binary distribution). The topicmap requests are processed by this plugin. That's the reason why the request path doesn't start with @/core@, like the other requests described here.

h2(#get-topic-map-by-id). Get topic map by ID

h3. Request

bc. GET /topicmap/56

h3. Response

The response is the requested topic map:

bc. {
    "topics": [
        {
            "id": 67,
            "type_uri": "de/deepamehta/core/topictype/SearchResult",
            "label": "Richter",
            "properties": {
                "de/deepamehta/core/property/DateModified": 1278987883338
            },
            "visualization": {
              "x": 230.2720206072554, "y": 397.7343209804967,
              "visibility": true
            },
            "ref_id": 240
        },
        {
            "id": 42,
            "type_uri": "de/deepamehta/core/topictype/Note",
            "label": "Jörg Richter",
            "properties": {
                "de/deepamehta/core/property/DateModified": 1278736576165
            },
            "visualization": {
                "x": 436.61296997382306, "y": 314.2628641165793,
                "visibility": true
            },
            "ref_id": 243
        },
        {
            "id": 55,
            "type_uri": "de/deepamehta/core/topictype/Note",
            "label": "DeepaMehta 3",
            "properties": {
                "de/deepamehta/core/property/DateModified": 1278980093803
            },
            "visualization": {
                "x": 501.99434025678784, "y": 511.70696080848575,
                "visibility": true
            },
            "ref_id": 246
        }
    ],
    "relations":[
        {
            "id": 238,
            "type_id": "SEARCH_RESULT",
            "src_topic_id": 67, "dst_topic_id": 42,
            "properties": {},
            "ref_id": 68
        },
        {
            "id": 206,
            "type_id": "RELATION",
            "src_topic_id": 42, "dst_topic_id": 55,
            "properties": {},
            "ref_id": 69
        }
    ]
}

For details about the data format see [[Data Format]]#topic-map.

*Note:* The response doesn't contain all of the topic's and relation's properties. (This would possibly make a large response which is possibly not needed by the client. To get a topic along with all of its properties use the "Get topic by ID":#get-topic-by-id request described above.) Which properties are returned depends on the installed plugins.

h2(#add-topic-to-topic-map). Add topic to topic map

h3. Request

bc. PUT /topicmap/56

bc. {
    topic_id: 82,
    x: 384,
    y: 527
}

Adds topic 82 to topic map 56.

h3. Response

bc. {ref_id: 220}

The ref_id is needed when updating the topic on the topic map later on, e.g. when moving or hiding it.

h2(#add-relation-to-topic-map). Add relation to topic map

h3. Request

bc. PUT /topicmap/56

bc. {relation_id: 281}

Adds relation 281 to topic map 56.

h3. Response

bc. {ref_id: 72}

The ref_id is needed when updating the relation on the topic map later on, e.g. when removing it.

h2(#remove-topic-from-topic-map). Remove topic from topic map

h2(#remove-relation-from-topic-map). Remove relation from topic map

h1(#plugins). Plugins

h2(#get-installed-plugins). Get installed plugins
